Layout of the great temple at Hattuca: https://www.jstor.org/stable/502939 (1976)
	Eastern ("A") part:
		Central building (64×42m)
			entrance gate, courtyard, pillar-hall, several rooms, one has a basin
			two adyta, left and right of courtyard
		Paved streets around on all four sides
			around that, rows of narrow rooms, varying size
				"magazines" for storage?
			servants' corridors connecting?
		Portal in southeast
			guard chambers on either side
	Western ("B") part:
		
	"In this connection we have to think of such establishments as are indispensable for a larger oriental temple unit and as are frequently mentioned in the texts: workshops where the cult implements were kept in order, kitchens and bakeries in which the ceremonial meals were regularly prepared for the gods, the office of administration, and of the scribes."

É^halentuwa: https://www.degruyter.com/document/doi/10.1515/aofo-2017-0010/html?lang=de
	translation as "adyton" may be erroneous
	instead, place where king oversees rituals and big assemblies?
		"During the Old Hittite ḫaleḫare-ceremonies in Ziplanda, cult acts were performed in the temple of the local Storm-god simultaneously in his adyton and the ḫalentuwa (KBo 20.3 iii 3′ ff.),[32] the latter being directly connected with the god’s bed chamber (KBo 52.117 r. col. 6′–7′).[33] In the temple compound, the adyton of the Storm-god and the ḫalentuwa were located close to each other, both probably adjacent to a courtyard (KUB 28.91 + KUB 58.6 vi 4 ff.).[34] The king may have spent the night in this ḫalentuwa that was also connected with a bathroom (VS NF 12.15 ii 7′-9′).[35]"

HFR-Glossar glosses: duwattar/-t(ta)n- luw. gen. n., heth. gen. c./n. ‚(Kultraum)‘
	Kultraum = adyton?
Alternately, adyton might be the "house" (É) of the god?

General encyclopedia: https://www.encyclopedia.com/environment/encyclopedias-almanacs-transcripts-and-maps/hittite-religion
	In addition to the cella, where the cult image of the deity was found, each contained a number of rooms that were used to house the permanent personnel and to store temple revenues. Each temple had a central courtyard. Worshipers crossing the courtyard from the temple entrance passed through a portico into the cella, which apparently could accommodate only priests and a small number of worshipers. Some larger temples, such as the principal temple in the lower city at Bogazköy (Temple I), may have contained two or more cellae and therefore housed the cult images of more than one god. In the terminology of the texts, therefore, going from the "house" of god A to the "house" of god B might have been possible without leaving the confines of a single multiroomed structure.
	
	Periodically, the king commissioned a census of the temples of the realm. Each city, town, or village was listed with its deities and temple(s). For each deity the census listed two types of male clergy and one type of female clergy. If for any reason a sanctuary lost any of its quota of clergy, it was restaffed. A small staff of two or three clergy was necessary even for a small sanctuary; in the main temple at Bogazköy there were many more. No term corresponding to high priest is known in Hittite, but a presiding official for the large, urban temples must have existed.
	
	The larger temples also maintained a staff of craftsmen. A list of the craftsmen employed in the main temple at Bogazköy enumerates goldsmiths and silversmiths, potters, leatherworkers, stonecutters, engravers, weavers, kitchen personnel, and various kinds of musicians. They lived and worked in a precinct just south of the main temple complex. Surviving texts describe the elaborate measures taken to ensure the ritual purity of these temple workers and their counterparts who served the needs of the king. Temple watchmen patrolled the precincts night and day to guard against fire and the intrusion of unwanted "unclean" animals. Visitors had to be escorted by temple guards from the main entrance to their appointments inside the temple and back to the exit once their business was done. Unauthorized persons were not allowed access to the holy precincts. In general, foreigners were not allowed in the Hittite temple; only privileged foreigners, perhaps ambassadors at the court, were allowed admittance under special circumstances.
	
	[The cult statue] was put to bed at night in the god's bedroom. In the morning it was aroused, washed and groomed, presented with food, and brought out to its cult platform for the day's round of receiving visitors (priests, dignitaries, and so on). On festival days it was put on a litter and carried through the streets to a pleasant meadow outside the city, where ceremonies, prayers, offerings, and even music, acrobatics, and games were performed to entertain the deity.
	
	The personal participation of the king (and sometimes also the queen) was very important. At times of military crisis a king might even have to leave command of the armies to a subordinate in order to return to Bogazköy to celebrate a religious festival. Not to do so constituted an unforgivable affront to the gods that could prove disastrous.
	
	The activities of worship were prayer (addressing the god either to invoke, praise, or petition him), sacrifice (presenting to the god gifts of food and drink), and entertainment (music, games, reciting myths). The musical instruments were drums, stringed and reed instruments, and horns. Singing was done in any of various languages, depending upon the deity's ethnolinguistic background: Hattic, Luwian, Hittite, Palaic, Hurrian, or Babylonian. In the cult of the Hattian gods a lead singer and a chorus sang antiphonally. Hattian deities were addressed in worship under two names: the name used among mortals and that among the gods.
	
	More than one Hittite noun was used to designate what may be called "prayer." Mugawar (mugeshshar ) referred to the invocation of the god's presence through words and ritual acts. Praise, adulation, and adoration were called walliyatar; petition was wekuwar. Reply to accusations of sin (i.e., self-justification or protestation of innocence) was arkuwar. A single Hittite prayer often contained several of these types of expression.
	
	(Dream divination not attested before the New Kingdom!)
	
	At a certain point in a ritual for a man suffering from sexual impotence, the sufferer is instructed to sleep in a holy place and report his dreams.
	
	(The whole "sin" section is good, read it!)

Book on sacred landscapes: https://media.fupress.com/files/pdf/24/3090/3090_8774


